# Replication Package for: A Theory of Foreign Exchange Interventions
## Authors: Sebastian Fanelli, Ludwig Straub
[Published article](https://doi.org/10.1093/restud/rdab013)<br/>
[Replication package](http://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.4452649)<br/>
<annotate>Your replication package can have fewer or more authors than the article. It is good practice to add research assistants who wrote the bulk of the code as authors.</annotate><br/>
# Data Availability Statements
This paper does not involve analysis of external data (i.e., no data are used or the only data are generated by the authors via simulation in their code). The code generating Figures 1-12 is in this repository.
<annotate>Include a formal Data Availability Statement for each of the datasets you are using. The goal is to describe clearly the steps that readers have to take if they want to access the data.</annotate><br/>

# Computational Requirements
## Software Requirements
The replication package was run successfully on a 2017 MacBook Pro, mac OS Catalina with:
 - Matlab R2018a
 - python 3.7.1
 - pdflatex

Only Matlab is necessary to compute the figures within Matlab. Python and pdflatex are only used for compilation of those figures.

## Runtime Requirements
Runtime is less than 5 minutes.
# Description of Code and Output
## Code
- To replicate Figures 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 8, 10 run `main_cts_model.m`
- To replicate Figure 6 run `main_reserve_wars_model.m`<br/>

In both files, the path for pdflatex needs to be specific at the top. Python needs to be installed as well. Once it is specified, the compiled tikz figures should appear in folder 'tikz_pdfs'. If this does not work, setting write_tikz and compute_pdf to 0 will produce the figures as Matlab figures but not converted into tikz files and pdfs.<br/>

Note: If the provided mex files for interpolate_matt do not work on your current operating system, please compile it from `interpolate_matt.c` directly, which is also provided in the folder.
## Output
Figure 1 consists of the following pdf files:<br/>
Left column:<br/>
* `opt_paper_RERss`
* `opt_paper_tau`
* `opt_paper_nfaGDP`
* `opt_paper_z_R_ss`
Right column:<br/>
* `opt_paper_rstar`
* `opt_paper_resGDP`
* `opt_paper_privnfaGDP`
* `opt_paper_z_h2m_ss`

Figure 2 consists of the following pdf files:<br/>
Left column:<br/>
* `smooth_ER_paper_RERss`
* `smooth_ER_paper_tau`
* `smooth_ER_paper_privnfaGDP`
* `smooth_ER_paper_resGDP`

Figure 3 consists of the following pdf:<br/>
* `cost`

Figure 4 consists of the following pdf files:<br/>
* `fwd_guid_puzzle_paper_RERss`
	 * `fwd_guid_puzzle_paper_resGDP`

Figure 5 consists of the following pdf files:<br/>
* `opt_LC_paper_RERss`
* `opt_LC_paper_tau`

Figure 6 consists of the following pdf files:<br/>
	Left column:<br/>
* `world_paper_rstar`
* `world_paper_reserves_GDP`
	Right column:<br/>
* `world_paper_tau`
* `world_paper_V_EME`

Figure 8 consists of the following pdf files:<br/>
* `res_acc_paper_RERss`
* `res_acc_paper_resGDP`

Figure 10 consists of the following pdf files:<br/>
	Left column:<br/>
* `learning_paper_RERss`
* `learning_paper_tau`
* `learning_paper_nfaGDP`
Right column:<br/>
* `learning_paper_rstar`
* `learning_paper_resGDP`
* `learning_paper_privnfaGDP`
