# Replication Package for: Uncertainty in the Hot Hand Fallacy: Detecting Streaky Alternatives to Random Bernoulli Sequences
## Authors: David M. Ritzwoller, Joseph P. Romano
<annotate>Your replication package can have fewer or more authors than the article. It is good practice to add research assistants who wrote the bulk of the code as authors.</annotate><br/>
# Data Availability Statements
<annotate>Include a formal Data Availability Statement for each of the datasets you are using. The goal is to describe clearly the steps that readers have to take if they want to access the data.</annotate><br/>
1. Data from the GVT shooting experiment were obtained from the replication package for Miller and Sanjurjo (2018). Surprised by the hot hand fallacy? a truth in the law of small numbers. Econometrica, 86(6):2019–2047. The data were downloaded from the link  https://www.econometricsociety.org/sites/default/files/14943_Data_and_Programs.zip on April 19, 2019. These data are available in `data/GVT`.

Data Citation:

Miller, J. B. and Sanjurjo, A. (2018c). Supplement to "surprised by the hot hand fallacy? a truth
in the law of small numbers.". Econometrica, 86(6):2019–2047.

2. The data underlying Figure 6 were obtained from "Basketball Reference" at the urls

```
https://www.basketball-reference.com/leagues/NBA_2019_totals.html#totals_stats::ft_pct
```
and
```
https://www.basketball-reference.com/leagues/NBA_2019_totals.html#totals_stats::ft_pct
```
on July 16, 2019. At the time, downloading data from this website was free, but this has subsequently been replaced by a paid service. The FT sample includes players who have attempted greater than 125 free throws in the 2018-2019 NBA season. The FG sample includes players who have attempted greater than 300 field goals in the 2018-2019 NBA season. These data are available in `data/NBA`.

Data Citation:

Basketball Reference (2019). 2018-19 NBA Player Stats: Totals. https://www.basketball-reference.com/leagues/NBA 2019 totals.html [Accessed: July 16, 2019].

3. Some data used in Figure 7 were copied manually from table 1 of Miller, J. B. and Sanjurjo, A. (2019). Is it a fallacy to believe in the hot hand in the nba three-point contest? University of Alicante mimeo. This preprint can be accessed at the URL  https://osf.io/dmksp/ and these data were obtained on August 6, 2020. These data are available in `data/3_pt`.

Data Citation:

Miller, J. B. and Sanjurjo, A. (2019). Is it a fallacy to believe in the hot hand in the nba three-point contest? University of Alicante mimeo.

4. In Online Appendix A, we make use of data downloaded from the CRSP Annual Update Daily Stock files. The data were dowloaded from the CRSP Annual Update Daily Stock files on September 1, 2020.
To access these files from the CRSP homepage, proceed to Get Data -> CRSP -> Annual Update -> Stock -> Security Files -> CRSP Daily Stock.  The data range was 2000-01-01 to 2019-12-31 The tickers requested are stored in `data/stocks/djia_tickers.txt` The variables requested are Cusip, Ncusip, Company Name, Ticker, CRSP Permanent Company Name, and Price. A map of the securities on the DJIA was obtained at https://us.spindices.com/indexology/djia-and-sp-500/the-changing-djia on September 1, 2020.

Data Citation:

CRSP(Center for Research in Security Prices) (2020). Daily Stock Security Files. http://www.crsp.org/ [Accessed: September 1, 2020].

5. In Online Appendix A, we make use of data on Historical Intraday Dow Jones Industrial Average were purchased from FirstRate Data, at https://firstratedata.com/i/index/DJI, on September 3rd, 2020. To replicate, these data can be purchased and placed into `data/FirstRateData`.

Data Citation:

FirstRate Data (2020). Historical Intraday Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJI) Data. https://firstratedata.com/i/index/DJI [Accessed: September 3, 2020].

# Computational Requirements
## Software Requirements
- All statistical computing was performed in the the R programming language, version 4.0.1.

- R package dependencies can be installed using the `config_r.R` file in `config`. One way to do this is to run the following bash command in a terminal from the config subdirectory:

```
Rscript config_r.R
```
## Memory and Runtime Requirements
- With the exception of the scripts contained in `analysis/power/4_power_joint_grid.R` all computing was performed on a 2018 MacBook Pro with a 2.9 GHz 6-Core Intel Core i9 processor and 32 GB of memory.

- The scripts in `analysis/power/4_power_joint_grid.R` were run on Stanford's "Sherlock" high-performance computing cluster.
# Description of Code and Data
All scripts in the repository should be run from base directory, i.e., the directory containing this README, and should be run sequentially according to their numerical labelling within their directory. That is, if  `1_script.R` and `2_script.R` are in directory `example`, then the user should execute `1_script.R` then `2_script.R` to replicate.
## Respository Map

- All paths are stored in the `paths.yaml` file.

- `analysis` contains all scripts implementing all tests and producing all figures. There are README files within each subdirectory specifying the order and content of scripts.
    - `bias_correction` Measures the finite sample behavior of plug-in statistics in Figure 1 and the second order approximation in Online Appendix Figure 5.
    - `GVT` contains all scripts analyzing the GVT shooting experiment
    - `stocks` contains all scripts analyzing two stock return datasets in Online Appendix A
    - `NBA` plots the distributions of NBA field goal shooting percentages in Figure 6
    - `power` contains scripts implementing the power analyses given in Sections 4 and 5

- `build` contains the output of the scripts in `analysis`

- `config` contains scripts needs to configure the conputing environment

- `data` contains README files giving information on how to obtain all sources of external data, compiled below.

## File Directory

### `analysis/bias_correction`

1. `1_bias_level.R` computes finite sample bias and level of plug-in test statistics.

2. `2_second_order.R` produces plot displaying quality of second order approximation.

### `analysis/GVT`

1. `1_stats.R` computes and saves raw statistics, as well as ther permutation distribution of the raw statistics, for each shooter.

2. `2_perm_indiv.R` computes, plots, and saves the individual level permutation p-values for the observed shooting sequences as well as each of the permutations.

3. `3_perm_strat.R` computes, plots, and saves the stratified p-value for the average statistics for the observed shooting sequences as well as each of the permutations.

4. `4_tukey.R` computes and saves the tukey HC p-value for each of permutations of the shooting sequences as well as the observed shooting sequence.

5. `5_fisher.R` computes and saves the fisher p-value for each of permutations of the shooting sequences as well as the observed shooting sequence.

6. `6_min_p.R` computes and saves the minimum p-value, p-value for each of permutations of the shooting sequences as well as the observed shooting sequence.

7. `7_normal_ci_null.R` produces the individual level normal approximation plots.

8. `8_shooter_109.R` produces the plot of shooter 109's shooting sequence.

9. `9_mult_comp.R` Prepares tables for the multiple hypothesis testing procedures.

10. `10_joint_test.R` Prepares a table for the tukey, fisher, and permutation joint hypothesis tests for each statistic, and computes the Fisher p-values for the joint tests over all statistics.

11. `11_closure.R` Computes the joint test p-values for various subsets containing 109

### `analysis/NBA`

1. `NBA.R` plots distribution of NBA shooting percentages.

### `analysis/power`

1. `1_save_all_perm_dist.R` computes the permutation distributions for each possible outcome of each shooting sequence.

2. `2_power_finite.R` computes the power of individual test.

3. `3_plot_finite.R` plots the results of the power calculation for the individual test.

4. `4_power_grid` contains sbatch files and scripts to compute calculate and plot the power for tests of the joint null.

5. `5_power_joint_normal.R` implements the calculations and produces the pdf underlying Figure 1.

6. `6_approximate.R` implements the calculations and produces the pdf underlying Figure 7.

### `analysis/stocks`

1. `CRSP` contains scripts that compute the implement and compute the power of the tests on the CRSP stock data in Appendix A.

2. `first_rate` contains scripts that compute the implement and compute the power of the tests on the FirstRate stock data in Appendix A.
