# Replication Package for: Should Robots be Taxed? 
## Authors: Joao Guerreiro, Sergio Rebelo, Pedro Teles
<annotate>Your replication package can have fewer or more authors than the article. It is good practice to add research assistants who wrote the bulk of the code as authors.</annotate>
This replication package contains the Matlab code used to calibrate and solve the model described in the quantitative sections in Guerreiro, Rebelo and Teles (2021) “Should Robots be Taxed?” The replication package is split into four different folders: Data, Simple Static Model, Calibration, and Optimal Policy. Data includes all the data used in the calibration of the model. The folder Simple Static Model contains the code to solve the model in section 3. The folder Calibration contains the relevant codes to calibrate and solve the status-quo equilibrium described in sections 5.1 and 5.2. Finally, the folder Optimal Policy contains the codes that solve the optimal policy exercises in section 5.3.

The figures of the dynamic model are automatically copied to the folder Figures when running that code.
# Data Availability Statements
<annotate>Include a formal Data Availability Statement for each of the datasets you are using. The goal is to describe clearly the steps that readers have to take if they want to access the data.</annotate>

1. U.S. Department of the Treasury. Fiscal Service, Federal Debt: Total Public Debt [GFDEBTN], retrieved from FRED, Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis; https://fred.stlouisfed.org/series/GFDEBTN, December 19, 2019.<annotate>Include the URL or DOI where data can be accessed and the date you have accessed it.</annotate>
2. U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis, Gross Domestic Product [GDPA], retrieved from FRED, Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis; https://fred.stlouisfed.org/series/GDPA, December 19, 2019.
3. The paper also uses data on private and public consumption to GDP ratios from the World Devel- opment Indicators, The World Bank obtained from https://datacatalog.worldbank.org/dataset/world-development-indicators.
4. The paper also uses data obtained from NBER Taxsim which can be found in Feenberg, Daniel, and Elizabeth Coutts, “An Introduction to the Taxsim Model” Journal of Policy Analysis and Man- agement Vol 12, Number 1, Winter 1993, and the data are obtained from http://users.nber.org/~taxsim/allyup/ [Feenberg and Coutts, 1993].<annotate>If you are including data from another paper's replication package, cite the package as well as the paper.</annotate>	
5. The paper also uses data obtained from Guvenen, Fatih, Karahan, Fatih, Ozkan, Serdar, and Song, Jae, “What Do Data on Millions of U.S. Workers Reveal about Life-Cycle Earnings Risk?”, National Bureau of Economic Research (2015), retrieved from https://fguvenendotcom.files .word- press.com/2014/04/moments_for_website_final.xlsx [Guvenen et al., 2015].
6. Finally, the paper uses data obtained from IPUMS: Flood, Sarah, King, Miriam, Rodgers, Re- nae, Ruggles, Steven, and Warren, J. Robert, "Integrated Public Use Microdata Series, Current Population Survey: Version 6.0", Minneapolis, MN: IPUMS (2018). IPUMS-CPS does not currently provide the ability to store or reference custom extracts, but allows for redistribution for the purpose of replication. The archive contains the time series which are used in the analysis in the folder “Data/Occupations Data”.

All data are publicly available.

# Computational Requirements
## Software Requirements
All codes use Matlab software. The code was run on Matlab Release 2020b. The optimization al- gorithms used are included in the Optimization Toolbox. Furthermore, we also use the HP filter algorithm from the Econometrics toolbox.
## Memory and Runtime Requirements 
The full set of code should take 1-2 days to run. The code was last run on a 2-core Intel-based laptop with 8 GB RAM.

# Description of Code
### Simple Static Model
This folder includes the programs to solve and draw the figures for the status-quo equilibrium in the static model. Running the file *Master.m* should run everything including obtaining the parameters of this model in the file *Parameters.m* and constructs the figure 1 with *DrawPlots.m*.
### Calibration
This folder includes the calibration and solution of the status-quo
equilibrium in our OLG economy. See the paper for details on the calibration
method. The codes should be run in the following order:
1. *Code1_Calibrate_SS1987.m* - calibrates and solves the initial steady state equilibrium before automation. This program solves the system of equations in *EqbmEq_SS1987.m*. This program calls *Parameters.m* which includes all the externally calibrated parameter values. (Short running time)
2. *Code2_SolveSQ_FinalSS.m* - this program solves the final steady state. The equations are in *EqbmEq_FinalSS.m* (Short running time)
3. *Code3_CalibrateTransition.m* - this program calibrates and solves the transition from initial to final steady state. This uses the file *SolveTransition.m* to evaluate the quality of fit of the calibrated parameters, while the equilibrium equations for this transition can be found in *EqbmEq_Transition.m*. (Long running time - few hours)
4. *Code4_TransitionPost2017* - this program solves the equilibrium after the 2017 Tax Reform. (Long running time - few hours)
5. *Code5_Figures.m* - this program constructs figures 2, 3, and 4 in the paper. (Short running time)

### Optimal Policy
This  folder  contains  the  relevant  programs  to  solve  the  Mirrleesian  policy  exercise.  The codes should be run in the following order:
1. *CodeA1_SteadyState.m* - solves the steady state of the baseline optimal policy exercise. The first order conditions for this problem are in *Equations_SS.m* (Running time: 30 seconds)
2. *CodeA2_Transition.m* - solves the transition for the baseline optimal policy exercise. To improve speed of computation we first solve a related problem without intensive margin constraints which is done by calling *CodeB1_Transition_OnlyExtensiveMargin.m* and uses the first order conditions in *Equations_Transition_OnlyExtensiveMargin.m*. It then uses this as the initial guess to solve the first order conditions in *Equations_Transition.m*. (Long running time)
3. *CodeA3_Transition_NoExtensiveMargin.m* - solves the optimal policy exercise for the economy without skill acquisition. This solves the first order conditions in *Equations_Transition_ NoEx-tensiveMargin.m*. (Long running time)
4. *CodeA4_WelfareGainsTauX.m* - solves the optimal policy exercise constrained to have zerorobot taxes and then computes the welfare gains of the baseline policy. (Long running time)
5. *CodeA5_Figures.m* - constructs figures 5, 6, and 7. (Short running time)
6. *CodeB2_TransitionFrom1987.m* - solves the optimal policy exercise starting in 1987 and *CodeB3_Figures.m* plots its associated figures. (< 1 hour).
### Summary table
The following table list the code used to produce each figure. We
list figures and  codes in the order in which they should be run.

# Instruction to Replicators
Further details on the data:<br/>

**Government Data**: The original data is in excel format: *WorldBankData_US.xlsx* contains theWorld Bank data, *FredData.xlsx* contains the data obtained from FRED, and *MgAvgTaxes.xlsx* contains the NBER Taxsim data. The Matlab codes *SpendingAndDebtRatios.m* and *ProgressivityTime-Series.m* import this data into the Matlab format and compute the necessary statistics which are described below. We use FRED data to compute the debt-to-GDP ratio. We then divide the debt-to-GDP and the public consumption-to-GDP ratios by the private consumption-to-GDP ratio in order to obtain the debt to private consumption and public consumption to private consumption ratios. Following Ferriere and Navarro [2014],  we compute progressivity based on NBER TAXSIM data. This NBER dataset provides marginal and average income taxes at the state, federal, and combined levels. We use the combined aggregation level in the Fixed Sample population in order to compute progressivity in the U.S. economy.<br/>

**Lifecycle Data**: No changes are made with respect to the baseline data. This data can be found in the excel file *Earnings_Lifecycle*.<br/>

**Occupations Data**: The occupations data includes the *occ2_timeseries* excel file which is obtained from computations using monthly CPS Data obtained from IPUMS [Flood et al., 2018]. We restrict out analysis to individuals in the labor force aged 17 to 64. We classify workers as belonging to routine or non-routine occupations following the approach in Cortes et al. [2014] and Corteset al. [2017]. Based on this classification, we compute the share of routine and non-routine workers in the labor force for each month. If hourly wage data is not available, we compute the workers hourly wage by dividing weekly earnings by usual hours worked per week. We then compute average hourly wages for each occupation group and month.The excel file *occ2_timeseries.xlsx* reports these statistics for each occupation group at the monthly level from January, 1982 to October, 2019. The Matlab code *OccupationsData.m* imports this data to and computes the non-routine wage premium and plots the time series of occupation shares and the wage premium.
# References
Guido Matias Cortes, Nir Jaimovich, Christopher J Nekarda, and Henry E Siu. The micro andmacro of disappearing routine jobs: A flows approach. Working Paper 20307, National Bureauof Economic Research, July 2014.<br/>
Guido Matias Cortes, Nir Jaimovich, and Henry E Siu. Disappearing routine jobs: Who, how, andwhy? *Journal of Monetary Economics*, 91:69–87, 2017.<br/>
Daniel  Feenberg  and  Elisabeth  Coutts. An  introduction  to  the  taxsim  model. *Journal of PolicyAnalysis and Management*, 12(1):189–194, 1993.<br/>
Axelle Ferriere and Gaston Navarro. The heterogeneous effects of government spending:  It’s allabout taxes. 2014.<br/>
Sarah  Flood, Miriam  King, Renae  Rodgers, Steven  Ruggles, and J. Robert  Warren. Integratedpublic use microdata series, current population survey: Version 6.0. 2018.<br/>
Fatih Guvenen, Fatih Karahan, Serdar Ozkan, and Jae Song. What do data on millions of u.s. work-ers reveal about life-cycle earnings risk?   Working Paper 20913, National Bureau of EconomicResearch, 2015.
